---
title: Welcome to the library
author: Gal Winer
author_title: Libraries Team
author_url: twitter.com/galwiner
author_image_url: http://2.gravatar.com/userimage/189800075/63df09a4c61fe21b4d0fb8142bbc8d87 
tags: [Libraries, welcome]
description: first commit
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

Science is a collaborative effort. It involves many people working together and 
(sooner or later) sharing their ideas, conclusions, wins and losses. 
As the size of the QUA community grows, the importance and value of interactions 
inside this community becomes greater. This is why we are launching the QUA
libraries and this blog. 

<!--truncate-->

Later this year they will be joined by other channels through which 
the community can grow and thrive. Watch this space. We already have 40+ scripts on
this repo which are aimed to help users in their journey from newbie to super-user as
efficiently as possible, and there's much more to come. The blog section of the website
will include best practice suggestions specific to QUA, as well as experimental notes
on everything in and around experimental Quantum Information Processing.

The QUA website is a convenient way to view the content of the qua-libs GitHub
repo, and it updates on every push to the repo. At the moment, the examples section 
contains mostly example scripts. However, content will not be limited to samples, as
advanced as some of them may be (VQE anyone? QAOA?). In coming months we will add
reusable modules to speed up your workflow in plotting, 
data-processing and experiment specific tools. We also welcome community contribution 
in any form, from contributions of scripts and features to contributed blog 
posts, all with full credit of course. We're excited to embark on this journey together with you, the users, and hope this space will 
help supercharge your QUA  